---
title: CS421_-_Fall_2003
tags: []
createdAt: 2003-09-04T02:24-04:00
updatedAt: 2003-09-04T02:24-04:00
---

What are algorithms?

Q: What is an algorithm (give an informal definition)?

    Name either of the two:

          o computational procedure or
          o tool for solving a well-specified computational problem


Q: What is an instance of a problem?

          o a certain input to an algorithm, that solves this problem


Q: What is the benefit of data structures?

          o Data structures are a way to store and organize data in order to facilitate access and modifications of that data


Q: What are hard problems?

          o Hard problems are problems for which no efficient algorithm exists.


Q: What does efficient algorithm mean?

          o An algorithm with polynomial runtime behavior


Q: Are NP-complete algorithms hard problems?

          o Nobody could prove this so far, most researchers believe it, though.


Q: What is the interesting thing about NP-complete problems?

          o It can be shown, that if there is an efficient algorithm for one of them, there are such algorithms for all of them.


Q: What is the usual criterion for efficiency of an algorithm?

          o Its runtime.


Q: Why is efficiency of algorithms so important?

          o Because in the long run (e.g. for very large input sizes) it matters much more than e.g. increasing the processing speed of computers, thus helping to save resources.


Correctness of insertion sort

Q: What is a loop invariant?

          o a predicate, i.e. a boolean value, used to prove the correctness of an algorithm.


Q: What has to be shown about loop invariants? Name the three keywords!

    (Name all three!)

          o Initialization
          o Maintenance
          o Termination


Q: What is the similarity to mathematical induction?

    (Name the two facts:)

          o the base case corresponds to Initialization
          o the predicessor-successor relationship corresponds to Maintenance

Analysis of insertion sort

Q: When analysing algorithms we try to predict the consumption of resources. What resources? Name at least two!

    * memory or other computer hardware
    * communication bandwidth
    * runtime depending on input size


Q: What is a worst case analysis, e.g. for the runtime of an algorithm?

          o We try to find the worst possible runtime


Q: What do we have to assume especially for a sorting algorithm, to get the worst possible runtime?

          o the input elements are sorted in reverse order


Q: When do we get the worst case runtime when we search a database?

          o If this what we are looking for is not there


Q: Why are we doing mostly a worst case analysis? Give at least two reasons!

    * it's an upper bound - it cannot get any worse.
    * the worst case occurs pretty often (consider a database where something is looked up which is not there).
    * the average case is often as bad as the worst case, see insertion sort.

Divide&conquer approach

Q: What are the three parts of divide&conquer algorithms? Name all of them!

          o divide
          o conquer
          o combine


Q: When do divide&conquer algorithms "back out"?

          o When the input size has become so small, that the problem can be solved straightforwardly.


Q: Which of the three steps is the merging of two sorted subsequences in Merge Sort?

          o This is the combine step

Analyzing divide&conquer algorithms

Q: What does it mean when we say that an algorithm is recursive?

          o It contains a call to itself.


Q:  What kind of algorithms are divide&conquer algorithms by nature - linear or recursive?

          o recursive


Q: Does the runtime equation of a recursive algorithm result in a recursive equation?

          o Yes

