---
title: Recurse - W1/6 D3/5
tags: ["blog","recurse-center"]
createdAt: 2024-03-27
updatedAt: 2024-03-27
---

In The Hub

* **General Status**:
  * I watched an interview with some musician once and found it inspirational. She said that she does her creation in waves. First is the intake wave -- she breathes in music, ideas, walks in nature, feelings. Then is the creation wave -- she breathes out experiments, refinements, practice, create. Breathe in consume, breathe out create. Breathe in. Breathe out.
  * Today I visited The Hub! Got a tour, met a ton of people!
  * I'm thinking of starting two meetups/clubs:
    * *Formal Methods Club* (Alloy, TLA+, Program correctness, etc)
    * *LLM Club* (applied Large Language Models, openAI/similar API, running local models, etc)
  * Made a flower and a wreath of flowers and a wreath of wreaths of ... at Creative Coding session
  * Did a little more on Human Essentials, gotta get this LONG overdue Dashboard PR out
  * Tomorrow I'm going to brush up on my Alloy and do some by-hand extraction of models from codebases, probably Human Essentials to start with
  * I'm planning on coming in to the Hub basically every weekday
* **Nerd Snipes:**
  * I realized that I can still run rofi and dunst, so even more the-same-as-before
  * The yubikey enable/disable broke, but I figured out a new way
    * At boot, `chmod 666 /sys/bus/usb/devices/3-1/authorized` which happens to be where I have it plugged in
    * Disable (or 1 to enable) with `echo 0 > /sys/bus/usb/devices/3-1/authorized`
