---
title: TLT_-_2004.12.14
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-12-15T02:06-05:00
updatedAt: 2004-12-15T02:06-05:00
---

Happy birthday to me!

----

Went and watched National Treasure... it was ok. Certainly no Davinci Code or anything... some frantic running (which adds points in my book).

Now that RSS works again I'll have to re-start my cron job to notify me of changes to this site. No spam yet, but since they are most likely humans doing the spam (so I hear) the question-asker may not stop them. It was fun anyway though.

----

I often feel that I should program in Smalltalk more, or at least a little. I think it goes back to my initial quest for an understanding of object-oriented programming. For something silly like a year and a half I read everything about OOP I could get my grubby hands on... books, papers, websites, anything. I just didn't get it. What, exactly, did OOP provide which I didn't already have using a modular style of programming, as was available to me in a language like Pascal? There must be something, I thought, or people wouldn't go on and on about it all the time.

Finally I found Smalltalk. In its simplicity and beauty I had my answer... OOP is not better than other techniques, but it is different. Seeing the code for displaying a button on the screen, and realizing that the method which controlled the button's physical location was the same as the method which controlled the overall windows' location... that they were in fact the same exact method... I realized that this way of organizing code and relating it to the data it manipulates made sense and wasn't overly stupid. I didn't become an OOP fan per-se, but I did become a smalltalk fan.

The hype of OOP in general did become pretty silly to me, however. I liked Adam's use of pointers-to-functions in C structs, in a lot of ways better than I liked C++'s real objects. Perl taught me that OOP may as well be equivalent to a fancy function calling convention and some hackery. OCaml/ML taught me that often what I really wanted was polymorphism and perhaps a powerful module system.

But still... in the back of my mind is the powerful simplicity of Smalltalk. A couple times a year I'll grab Squeak and turn it on... but I never do anything with it.

