---
title: TLT_-_2004.06.10
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-06-10T12:12-04:00
updatedAt: 2004-06-10T12:12-04:00
---

Well... bad news. I had to abort the mission here in Boston. Yesterday Giorgos called me and said that they will no longer be hiring me. This was quite shocking of course (I'm still in shock a day later)... but it had very serious implications about my ability to maintain financial stability.

My choices boiled down to two things -- either stay, Beth joining me, get a job as quickly as possible (which almost definitely means a crappy job, same for beth), and make just enough money to pay rent and eat. Sustain. Perhaps I would find a better job than expected, or more likely I would continue looking for a good job while I worked at the crappy one.

Second plan is to pull back completely, get out of my lease and go back to Tempe (Beth's parents' house) where we will be more financially stable and I could then begin searching again. Most likely I'd spread my search to be nationwide, or at least bigger than just-boston. A sub-part of this plan would be to stay at Rob&Patty's house and continue a job hunt locally... but this is nearly equivalent to going to Tempe except without Beth (and I miss her!). Actually it would also mean continuing to spread Beth and my finances between two locations.

After talking to Beth and friends and family we decided to go for the second plan. Thus an abort-mission was called... I talked to Paul, my landlord, and he was very understanding and let me out of my lease. Beth is not going to fly out here on Saturday, instead she is going to get airline credit and I will fly back to Phoenix this weekend or next. I've already put myself back on the job market via Adam and Andrew (and am now re-subscribing to some jub hunt mailing lists). My reluctance to purchase a car seems to have paid off yet again.... no need to worry about that.

I'm very very very VERY disappointed... besides the slowness (and apparent financial instability) of [http://openratings.com Open Ratings], I was really looking forward to that job. It was a wonderful match for both of us and I sincerely hope that one day they realize what a great programmer they have now lost :). So what happened is this: They recently [http://www.openratings.com/news/press/gentia_assets/ acquired Gentia] (a similar company based in the UK). Gential's sales turn out to be a third of what they thought. So they transferred one of the programmers from that organization into the position I was going to fill. I technically had only a verbal agreement with them, so they dropped me.

They've effectively cost me around $1500 cash and who knows what in lost time... and certainly some emotional trauma (Adam said he'd never heard me so angry). But I'm far from crushed.

If any of you have a lead on a job for which I am applicable (I can do any type of programming there is, though of course there are some types which I am currently stronger with) let me know!

