---
title: TLT_-_2004.05.29
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-05-29T19:47-04:00
updatedAt: 2004-05-29T19:47-04:00
---

I had a great idea today. Remember Quantum Leap? Well... I think that all of the shows that are on now, everything from malcom in the middle to The Sopranos to The Simpsons, should have a special 'Quantum Leap' episode in which one of the main characters gets leapt-into!

Rob and I went to Waltham (pronounced wall-thahm (ah like apple)) today looking for apartments for me and Beth. They were all pretty expensive and none of them had any immediate openings for what we wanted. But then we were driving down one street and saw a house with a rent sign. One of those houses where there are multiple apartments in the place. Well I went ahead and called and it was within the price range and bigger (two-bedroom) than I expected.

So Rob and I got the guy to meet us there and took a tour. It is no fun to take a tour of a place when there are already people living there... especially when they are moving out so their stuff is all over the place. The place has a lot of character in that it is quite maze-like. This is a plus in my eyes. Maybe I'll draw you a diagram later. The whole place is 3 stories high, and our apartment would be spread across the 2nd and 3rd stories -- I imagine taking up one side of the building or so.

In fact I'm trying to even picture it now and I can't quite describe it. Well in any case the kitchen, living room, and a bathroom are on the 2nd floor. Then above that, on the third floor, is two bedrooms, another bathroom, and a strange sort of storage room. The place seemed a bit on the worn side, but I think that impression was at least partially due to the current occupants.

Well, that was the best place we found so we're going to take it. Tomorrow afternoon Rob'll take me over and I'll sign paperwork and give him a last-month deposit. He is going to re-paint the place this week and I'll move in next weekend. I start work that week and hopefully Beth will join me the following weekend. Exciting!

