---
title: TLT_-_2013.12.22_-_Overtone_Adventures_1
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2013-12-25T01:26-05:00
updatedAt: 2015-10-18T16:08-04:00
---

Tags: Clojure, Overtone, Music

So I've gone through [https://github.com/overtone/overtone/wiki/Getting-Started Overtone Getting Started] a few times, and am up and running. Only trick at all is that I already have my own jackd wrapper script to get jack started. Just like the other times that I went through this tutorial, I get to this point and say "now what?"

There are two different directions to explore. I have the REPL working, but it would be nice to be able to execute from a file and also do some interactive editing via Vim (or Emacs I suppose). The other path is to ... you know ... make some music (er... noise).

So I go on a reading spree. Things I learn:
* There is a neat [https://github.com/overtone/overtone/raw/master/docs/cheatsheet/overtone-cheat-sheet.pdf Cheat Sheet]. But I don't know how to work it.
* Read a bit about [https://github.com/overtone/overtone/wiki/Metronome-and-sequencing Sequencing] on the wiki. Learned:
** You can grab samples from freesounds, like: (def kick (sample (freesound-path 2086)))
** You can then play that with (kick). Fun!
** Something that I read before -- you kinda schedule sounds out in the future a bit. Think I saw that on a video
* The main README references some video tutorials, I'm going to check them out
* [http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/scala/clojurex-unpanel-2894 skillsmatter clojurex unpanel]
** Nice! Shows some dubstep type noise to make during a 20 minute workshop
** Mentions here as I've seen elsewhere: definst uses macros to send synths to supercollider, so only a specific set of things are OK in there (not arbitrary expressions)
** Shows how to sequence things a bit

