---
title: TLT_-_2013.12.26_-_Overtone_Adventures_4
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2013-12-26T20:41-05:00
updatedAt: 2015-10-18T16:07-04:00
---

Tags: Clojure, Overtone, Music

Today I'm playing with [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Sound_Control Open Sound Control (OSC)], which is more general-purpose than midi but kinda similar idea. I have an android app on my phone named [https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.charlieroberts.Control&hl=en Control] which has a few existing UIs, in my case I'm playing with the multi-touch. I set it to have two touch inputs.

In my Overtone REPL, I first set it up to listen for OSC events, and dump out whatever events it sees:

<code clojure>
(def server (osc-server 44100 "osc-clj"))
(osc-listen server (fn [msg] (println msg)) :debug)
; Turn off with: (osc-rm-listener server :debug)
</code>

I got both my laptop and phone on the wifi (which allows peer-to-peer communication) and told the Control app to connect to my laptop server (192.168.0.15 port 44100, in this case). Now when I touch the screen I get a bunch of messages about the generated OSC events. They look like:

<code>
{:src-port 45161, :src-host 192.168.0.25, :path /multi/1, :type-tag ff, :args (0.36825398 0.3961456)}
</code>

From this I see that the path I want to react to is "/multi/1" and "/multi/2". Dragging my fingers around, the args are the x and y coordinates normalized to (0..1). For now I'll just make it beep a bit when it gets an event. I'm hooking the first touch up so the X axis generates a frequency, and the second touch up so that the Y axis generates a frequency (just as a test), giving:

<code>
(osc-handle server "/multi/1" (fn [msg]
  (let [
      x (nth (:args msg) 0)
      y (nth (:args msg) 1)]
    (demo 0.1 (saw (+ 100 (* 100 x))))
  )
))

(osc-handle server "/multi/2" (fn [msg]
  (let [
      x (nth (:args msg) 0)
      y (nth (:args msg) 1)]
    (demo 0.1 (saw (+ 100 (* 100 y))))
  )
))
</code>

Each touch plays for 1/10th of a second, so if I drag around these overlap a bunch. In fact, if I drag around a lot then something gets backed up and the sound is delayed.

