---
title: TLT_-_2005.10.29
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2005-10-30T01:46-04:00
updatedAt: 2005-10-30T01:46-04:00
---


I recently read a notable piece from [http://slashdot.org/ Slashdot], [http://charlespetzold.com/etc/DoesVisualStudioRotTheMind.html Does Visual Studio Rot the Mind?]. This was a talk given to the NYC's .NET Developer's Group by [http://charlespetzold.com/ Charles Petzold], author of several Windows developer books. The style of the talk was entertaining in general, but the topic also caught my attention.

Basically Petzold presenting a philosophical critique of Windows programming in Visual Studio, though the critique reaches more deeply into technology as a whole than just that. The point he makes is that the tools we use to help us program put pressure on our programming style. So, for example, IntelliSense forces us to program bottom-up, defining all our methods and variables before we use them. Because if we don't, it yells at us when trying to do auto-completion that such-and-such method is not defined. "It’s not that IntelliSense is teaching us to program like a machine; it’s just that IntelliSense would be much happier if we did."

The topics his talk touches overlap quite a bit with things I've been contemplating relating to [[Continuity]], which is why I bring it up. I don't use Visual Studio at all, but it's clear that Visual Studio is not the only technology that tunes our approach to things. One example is a much-touted feature of [http://www.rubyonrails.org/ Ruby On Rails] -- code skeleton generation (a topic also mentioned in Petzold's talk). RoR has some handy tools which generate skeleton code for chunks of your class. This goes along with the general philosophy that if you are using RoR then you will be doing things the RoR way, and that's that. That's not the approach I'm going to take.

When I sat in at the [http://azphp.org AzPHP] meeting last month, one question asked was "what is the difference between a framework and a library?" My response was the simplistic "Your program calls library code, whereas a framework calls your program's code instead." In other words, you use a library's API, and structure your program however you wish. But in a framework, you must conform to an API that the framework uses. There's a big difference there in your freedom to structure your program however you like. Another example of the tools you use influencing how you use them.

This whole thing might seem like a "duh", but I do have a point. <i>Libraries influence your coding style less than frameworks</i>. Using [[Continuation-based Web Programming]] we get to invert the control of the HTTP session, letting us code how we wish. What I'd like to do with [[Continuity]] is continue that trend though higher levels of application design.

