---
title: Recurse - W4/6 D3/5
tags: ["blog","recurse-center"]
createdAt: 2024-04-17
updatedAt: 2024-04-17
---

In-Hub, LLM + Sonic Pi, dash of docker-compose

* **General Status:**
  * Went into the Hub
  * Worked in the morning on Human Essentials a bit, but quickly switched to chatting with folks locally
  * Paired with *SL* to set up some docker-compose fun
  * Paired with *SW* on trying to mash up [LLM (datasette)](https://llm.datasette.io/en/stable/) with [Sonic PI](https://sonic-pi.net/)! We ... didn't get it to work. But SW says they got something going via a CLI interface to Sonic!
* **Nerd Snipe:**
  * When I was chatting with SL yesterday I realized that my [Unison Powered Backups](https://thelackthereof.org/unison-backup-setup) can error out without me knowing
  * Well I've always KNOWN this, but I ignore it because it works pretty much all the time. Still ... it had failed the night before...
  * So I made a wrapper that will do a system notification when it fails
  * Now I've got it running hourly. When it works it pops up a "backup complete" notification that goes away after a few seconds, and when it fails it pops up a "BACKUP FAILED" that won't go away until I click
  * Now I have to decide what I want it to tell me about no-internet situations. hm.
  * I just noticed that my original writeup of this backup structure was written in 2006!!!! That's pretty good sustainability on a backup solution :)
* **Alloy+LLM+Rails Project:**
  * RC has a tiny "community cluster", which has to machines with small GPUs!
  * I got access to that yesterday, so I played with that a bit on the token-tree, got it working! Def faster than the local CPU. I wouldn't be surprised if a mac Mx processor was similar
