---
title: TLT_-_2004.07.19
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-07-20T02:26-04:00
updatedAt: 2004-07-20T02:26-04:00
---

(Extracted from an email to David)

So I've been thinking about doing web programming using the new
application-oriented technique (Contize). One thing that I have to deal
with is breadcrumbs. In their current incarnation, and as they are used
on most sites, breadcrumbs embrace the idea of state management, in
addition to being useful navigation guides. What I've realized is that
by clicking on a breadcrumb item you are in effect doing _two_ things.
First you are canceling the current operation, and second you are
returning to a previous state.

I think that I will try to make it more apparent that this is happening.
Imagine that you are in the accounting module, in a person's details,
editing a transaction for that person. Your breadcrumb looks like:

  Main -> Accounting -> User (awwaiid) -> Transaction (#1175)

and you click on "Main". What I suggest is that this implies not just
jumping to the main page, but also 'exit'ing all of intermediate stages.
This is the whole 'goto considered harmful' thing I believe... instead
of just doing a GOTO Main I want to do a 'exit until you get to main'.

The implication is, however, that any of the intermediate stages of the
exit could take control. They could, for example, prompt for a
confirmation to cancel changes. If the user then chooses not to cancel
then the request to exit to the Main area is ceased. Each intermediate
stage doesn't really care that we want to go back to Main, rather they
care that you want to exit them and they must take care of that request.

As I've mentioned elsewhere... wrapping my head around this "simplified" method of web development is difficult and fun.

