---
title: Recurse - W1/6 D4/5
tags: ["blog","recurse-center"]
createdAt: 2024-03-28
updatedAt: 2024-03-28
---

Fuzzy brained, but starting to figure this thing out.

* **Morning Status**:
  * Feeling a bit fuzzy brained ... I had a cold like 2 weeks ago and hope it's not coming back or getting a new one. I don't *think* I have allergies. Still. I was face-to-face with a LOT of people yesterday. So while I'm feeling only very slight off, I'm going Virtual today to see how it progresses.
* **General Status:**
  * Felt much better as the day went! Maybe I'm fine?
  * Did my first coffee-chat, it was lovely
  * I might start doing some Pomodoros tomorrow
  * The presentations were delightful!
  * I also went to a manager-roundtable which was helpful for some work-stuff
* **Alloy+LLM+Rails Project:**
  * Worked on some Alloy fundamentals and resources
  * Watched and made notes on an inspirational video, wrote [a blog post on it](https://thelackthereof.org/tlt-2024.03.28-notes-from-peter-kriens-video)
  * Slight tangent, but started poking at low-level local LLM setup to work on my next-token visualization exploration
  * I'm trying out python with llama-cpp-python as an easy and capable approach
  * I have it working enough to do some completions
  * Next I am going to work on doing token level interactive tokens, and then I'll find someone to help me visualize with d3 or something to give a hands-on feel for next-token generation
  * That is (a) fun, and (b) might lead to some insights in some of my other studies here
* **Nerd Snipes:**
  * While watching an [inspirational video on Alloy and practicalizing Formal Methods](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_j3SdIGqYG8), I was grabbing a few screenshots and YET AGAIN realized that my vim-based markdown edit workflow doesn't mesh with ad hoc image insertion. I set up [clipboard-image.nvim](https://github.com/dfendr/clipboard-image.nvim) and now I can paste like magic!
