---
title: Recurse - W1/6 D1/5
tags: ["blog", "recurse-center"]
createdAt: 2024-03-25
updatedAt: 2024-03-25
---

First day of RC!

* **General Status:**
  * First day of RC! Virtual today (everyone)
  * Participated in the two onboarding meetings, starting to get a feel for my new friends. TONS of inspirational people and ideas, lots of things to share and explore :)
  * I'm looking to getting IRL on Wednesday
  * Also looking forward to Creative Coding exercises and .... just doing some whimsical things!
* **Nerd Snipe:** Every 6 months or so I try to switch from xmonad to wayland+sway. Yesterday I tried again and actually made a ton of progress and I think crossed over the usability line. The biggest thing that I kept having issues with was screen-sharing, but I think I found the right incantation at last. So .... now the tricky bit where I have like 15 years of xmonad gradual adaptations that I've done and I have to decide which to keep, which to abandon .... and also how nerd-sniped I am willing to be for working on those adaptations :)
* **Alloy+LLM+Rails Project:** I have been pre-gaming a bit, so have a large [zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) backlog of interesting papers to read through and take some notes on. I also am going to work through a few [Alloy](https://haslab.github.io/formal-software-design/index.html) experiments to both get my fingers remembering how it works and also learn the new temporal logic stuff they added recently. Next up I want to manually extract some alloy models from code-bases to think out the different types of models (DB Schema, API, Rails Models, etc) and maybe use that to build up some examples for The Machine (LLMs).
* **Good:** For the Human Essentials project, I have several open tickets. I'm going to spend the last hour of the day (now) working on that!
* **Ideas/Other:**
  * [Formal Methods](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formal_methods) interest group?
  * LLM interest group?
  * Several people were interested in doing some Good; Once I'm settled in I'll declare open invite for pairing on [Human Essentials](https://github.com/rubyforgood/human-essentials) and see what I can join others on. I really want to get Github Codespaces set up for easier onboarding, hmmm
