---
title: Paper Snake Game
image: /content/paper-snake-pixel-art.jpg
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2023-04-30
updatedAt: 2023-04-30
mastodonThread: https://mastodon.social/@awwaiid/110285863632396209
---

Creating a simple snake game with the help of ChatGPT.

img:paper-snake-pixel-art.jpg _Pixelated snake, possibly in the desert, somewhat two-dimensional. Image by Bing Image Creator._

I was chatting with Mario about a school project he is doing. Basically he needed to write a program in Elm (based on a list of lesser-used languages) that typifies what the language is used for. Since that is a pretty reactive web-centric language, I suggesed a game. He went with Snake, a simple and solid choice.

For some reason I started thinking about Snake, specifically what sort of design or game elements might be added to it. Two things came to mind. First is the idea of rendering the snake as a flat piece of paper, maybe even each segment a tiny scrap of paper. Animate it in a way reminicent of stop-frame animation. Second is the idea of "jumping over" (or "diving under") the existing segments. I'm sure it's all been done before, but it sounds fun.

Well Mario finished his traditional Snake game before I even told him the paper-snake idea, so I thought I'd give it a try myself. I also want to practice some Typescript. After grabbing a nice [PhaserJS + Typescript + Vite template](https://github.com/ourcade/phaser3-typescript-vite-template) I was off and running!

But while we're playing with various technologies, let's practice some ChatGPT. I loaded it up and started asking it about building a Snake game using this stack. Since the Snake game concept is so common and easy, I found that ChatGPT knew a LOT about implementing Snake. I prompted it in a few different ways to add in my twists and style, but I think it must have shaved a few hours off of my research time. Within a few hours I (we?) had a working game with jumping and everything!

You can see the [current version of the game](https://awwaiid.github.io/paper-snakes/) and the corresponding [github repo for paper-snakes](https://github.com/awwaiid/paper-snakes).

