---
title: "Nerd Snipe - Task time tracking"
tags: ["blog", "nerdsnipe"]
createdAt: 2025-03-04
updatedAt: 2025-03-04
---

Since I'm going some consulting work I have to do a bit of time tracking. And you know what that means! Playing with my [taskwarrior](https://taskwarrior.org/) and [timewarrior](https://timewarrior.net/) config!!!

## What would you say you do here?

It's pretty easy for me to focus on something but it takes effort to make sure that I'm focused on the right thing, don't forget stuff, and keep track of what it is that I did. I have been using taskwarrior for quite a while, I even have it integrated in with my gmail-starred emails which is handy.

But I also need to keep track of billable hours. There is a separate but corresponding `timewarrior` project for this, and a hook that ties them together. So once configured, if you do `task 123 start` it will start the clock for task 123, and if you do either `task 123 stop` or `task 123 done` then it will stop the clock. You can use `timew` reports to see the total time.

## Start the clock immediately

Sometimes, often, I want to note a task and immediately begin working on it. I modified the [on-modify.timewarrior](https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/timewarrior/blob/develop/ext/on-modify.timewarrior) to be a [on-add.timewarrior](https://gist.github.com/awwaiid/6963af7895005f7fa839b1663ec48a7e) and then add this alias into `.taskrc`:

```
alias.doing = add start:now
```

## Only One Clock. Stop "it".

While there might be fancier ways to use `timewarrior`, how I'm using it basically assumes there is only one task happening at a time. If you `task 123 stop` then it stops the clock. If you `task 456 start` then it stops the old one (in `timewarrior`, not in `taskwarrior`) and starts the new one. Fine. But let's make a handy shorthand for stopping/finishing the "current" task.

Altogether, I now have this in my `.taskrc`:

```
# These use on-add.timewarrior and on-modify.timewarrior hooks

# Shortcuts to both add and start
alias.doing = add start:now

# Shortcuts to stop or complete the currently started
alias.stopit = start.not: stop
alias.doneit = start.not: done
```

Now I can `task doing "working on something"` and then either `task stopit` or `task doneit`!
