---
title: TLT_-_2005.02.18
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2005-02-18T01:54-05:00
updatedAt: 2005-02-18T09:32-05:00
---

<graph align=left>
  digraph {
    "Build OGPF" -> "Research";
    "Research" -> "Profit!";
  }
</graph>
I'm slowly making progress on my perl backend for [[OGPF]]. Lately I've been feeling a little down on my genetic programming activities because I spend a lot more time building frameworks than actually using the frameworks. On the other hand I've always conceived [[OGPF]] as an experimental system... so I suppose if I eventually abandon it so that I can get some actual work done it would be OK.

Back on the other hand it isn't really worth abandoning. It certainly works, its just that I'm not using it. I built a simple tree-based backend, and tested that. Then I built a untyped lambda calculus backend, but haven't really used it. Then I decided at CodeCon that it would be fun to do a Perl backend. Using Perl for the backend has several advantages over the lambda calculus, foremost being ease of interface with system constructs.

But then I wonder what I would get out of Perl as compared to a typed lambda-calc (such as even dumping to a subset of OCaml/ML). See if I dumped to OCaml I would also solve my interface issue, while maintaining performance and a single-language system. On the other hand the programs themselves loose flexibility. Using Perl I get limited typing, which is more than none but less restrictive than full.

This all brings me back to Lee Spector's [http://hampshire.edu/lspector/push.html Pushpop] system. He has constructed a programming language/system specifically for evolutionary computation. In Pushpop the individuals in the population are responsible for their own reproduction which has some interesting implications, such as their building of abstractions to copy themselves also pushing them toward modularity of sorts. Providing a flexible environment means that programs can evolve to solve the problems in a natural way, not necessarily a human-logic way.

Overall I am walking a thin line between flexibility for the GP individuals and simple interfacing with external systems (including humans). I'm just not sure where I fall on this issue and the only way I'll figure it out is through actual experimentation with a variety of systems... and if I never complete any of my backends then I'll never make progress.

And time marches on.

