---
title: TLT_-_2004.02.21
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-02-21T23:33-05:00
updatedAt: 2004-02-21T23:33-05:00
---

Well I changed the calendar to highlight the day in my local time. I might subtract 6 more hours so that it is still "today" even after midnight. The jury of my mind is still out on that one.

I had too much soda on wedneday, thursday, and friday. Then today I had none (till a few minutes ago) and I've felt pretty bad since thursday. I answered about half the questions on my test in [[Abstract Algebra]] yesterday. I figure that since it is one of the hardest undergraduate courses in mathematics available and since there are only 7 people in the class that I am actually doing pretty well. None of the other people are answering every question perfectly as if it were cake or anything... and I can understand everything after I've read it over a few times.

Mandie and I went to work together on Friday, which was great since I don't particularly want her to get fired (for lack of attendance) and I don't think she wants to get fired either. We hung out, she ate dinner with Beth and I at Cafe Ole, and then Mandies and I went and watched the third Matrix. Movie wasn't awefull -- in fact Mandie's giddyness at how cliche so many parts of the were made it quite enjoyable.

I'm working on [[SetDB]] today and yesterday. Made progress... can now do two (or more) childsets. Haven't tried more deeply nested childsets yet, so I don't know if they work. I started to work on adding new records and then realized how hard this actually is. The main problem is that when adding a book to a view that looks like 'person -> owns_book -> book' I also have to create an owns_book record and then connect it to the right person.

This gets even trickier when I want to add a book and have specified the path, as in ('person', ['owns_book', 'book']). The childset is an interpolation of the owns_book record and the book record, with the owns_book record coming first and thus (as of right now) being listed as the primary table for the childset.

Now that I'm thinking about it, another tricky spot I need to keep an eye on is connecting preexisting records together. So if I grab book that one person owns and want to add it to another person it too must add the connecting table. I'm sure all of this can be done... and I'm still sticking to my design-forthe-programmer motto. It is just a matter of figuring out how.

