---
title: TLT_-_2004.02.23
createdAt: 2004-02-24T17:29-05:00
editedAt: 2004-02-24T17:29-05:00
---

Work work work.

Chris isn't here... I hope he didn't break a leg skiing. Snow abounds so maybe he is just stuck on the other side of some mountain. More importantly -- MY PLANT HAS BEEN STOLEN! I think KC took it over the weekend. It is sad! I want my plant back!

----

Thank mandies for finishing the [[TLT - 2004.02.20]] entry. I think I actually started this entry at work earlier so we will see what happens when two different versions are saved at once... should work magic-like pretty much.

While sitting in deep contemplation of The Buddha today in class I realized some things about SetDB which should give me the structure needed to add new data. Basically I realized that it only makes sense to add records one layer away from a given context. That is -- if I have a person who has books, and each book has a list of places where it was published, then it would make sense to add a new book for that person. It would not make sense, however, to add a new place of publication for that person. So this one-link away is in the undirected graph sense, not the complex-set specification sense. So... the schema would be:

  +--------+      +----------+      +------+      +-----------------+      +----------+
  | person | <--- | has_book | ---> | book | <--- | place_published | ---> | location |
  +--------+      +----------+      +------+      +-----------------+      +----------+

Set Structure:
  (person, [book, [location]]) <==> (person, [has_book, book, [place_published, location]])

Path:
  person --> has_book --> book --> place_published --> location

So in this setup it would make sense to add a book to a person, or add a location to a book, but it would not make sense to add a location to a person. Hmm... in this case it actually does look like the set-structure is a good way of looking at when we can or cannot add things. If we have a parent we can add a child but not a grand-child.

Things would be different, however, if we were using: (person, [book, location]). Here we are interpolating the book and its location into single tuples (so we would possibly have repeated books).

More thoughts needed.

