---
title: TLT_-_2004.05.10
createdAt: 2004-05-10T16:57-04:00
editedAt: 2004-05-19T16:50-04:00
---

Well, I'm in Worcester (at Beth's Brother's house), MA. Its beautiful here. Tons of green. My flight was uneventful, so generally good. Kinda mad at travelocity since they let me choose which seat I wanted for the flight when reserving the ticket, but then I got a completely different seat on check-in.

Rob (aka Bob) and Patty picked me up at the Boston airport. Went by shuttle then by subway to downtown Boston. Patty <i>does not like</i> subways. From there we walked to the car and drove the scenic route along highway (route, road, whatever) 9. Like I said, tons of green.

They live in a two-story condo, two bedrooms and two bathrooms on the bottom, livingroom, den, kitchen on the top. Worcester is a little more spread out than Boston itself, but we are in a spot where we can walk to a few things. Today I walked for 45 minutes to a bookstore, where I bought a Dan Brown book (not to be confused with [[Dan Bern]]), <i>Digital Fortress</i>, ISBN 0312263120, which is good so far.

The real exciting stuff starts tomorrow. I will pick up a rental car early in the morning, and then my interview for http://openratings.com is at 2pm.

I must also add that I'm renting from [https://rent.drivebudget.com/Home.jsp Budget Rent A Car]. All the others wouldn't rent to me. Dan Bern was right!

I miss Beth, and she misses me... but we haven been talking to each other regularly so it is going good so far. I look forward to her joining me though.

