---
title: TLT_-_2016.09.05_-_Test_Suite_Debugging_Time
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2016-09-05T16:07-04:00
updatedAt: 2016-09-05T18:01-04:00
---

One of the codebases I work on regularly has a large and slow test suite. So slow that it typically only runs in totality in a continuous-integration (ci) environment, and there it uses the [https://github.com/grosser/parallel_tests parallel_tests gem] to slice it into pieces and run in parallel. This gets it to run in like 30 minutes instead of 2.5 hours.

But I want to run the whole thing linearly sometimes, especially so I can make sure tests aren't conflicting with each other. So I created a new ci job that runs it linearly ... and got a fail that I didn't get otherwise. Took forever to figure it out!

This was about a worker that I call a "sweeper" -- it's job is to run once a day and make sure nothing was missed by other realtime jobs during the day. Here is a simplified version.

<code>
class SweeperWorker
  INTERVAL = 25.hours.ago # Overlap the day by an hour
  def perform
    candidates.each(&:do_work) # something like that
  end
  def candidates
    Thing.where('created_at > ?', INTERVAL)
  end
end

# rspec
describe SweeperWorker do
  let(:new_thing) { Thing.new(created_at: 5.hours.ago) }
  let(:old_thing) { Thing.new(created_at: 26.hours.ago) }

  it "does pick up the new thing" do
    new_thing # force to exist
    expect(SweeperWorker.new.candidates).to include(new_thing)
  end

  it "does not pick up the old thing" do
    old_thing # force to exist
    expect(SweeperWorker.new.candidates).not_to include(old_thing)
  end
end
</code>

Not sure that is quite right, but you should get the idea.

The second example was failing -- both the "old thing" and the "new thing" were getting into the sweeper window -- but only when the test suite was run linearly. Run it in ci, no problem. Run just this test/file locally, no problem.

The suspect is thus "time" -- but where? I went down the wrong track for a while, looking into timezones. Rails vs MySQL on ci vs my machine and so on ... some of those things weren't quite matched up, but still. I ran the test over and over, adding more and more debugging so I could peer into the contents of variables and the DB. Everything looked fine -- all the timestamps were what I expect. So it must be the query itself that is somehow asking for a longer timespan.

Finally I got it! Right there in the first line of SweeperWorker:

<code>
INTERVAL = 25.hours.ago # Overlap the day by an hour
</code>

This constant is set <b>when the class is loaded</b>, and never changed! So by the time this test runs in the 2.5 hours of test time, "25 hours ago" is now "27.5 hours ago" -- so our "old" thing is in our window. The "25.hours.ago" certainly looks relative, but it is a calculation that outputs an absolute time which is then saved for later use.

Move that constant into the method as a variable and it is fixed. And now we can sing our victory song!

[[youtube:w8KQmps-Sog]]

Lessons:
* Beware of calculated constants
* Make sure relative values are actually relative
* If the speed of execution (slow vs fast) changes the outcome, look for things that are more or less spread out in the timeline, such as constant definition.


