---
title: TLT_-_2004.12.10
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-12-11T03:49-05:00
updatedAt: 2004-12-11T03:49-05:00
---

Arrg. Whole lot of wiki-spam over the last few days. I need to fix my RSS so that I will be notified of this sort of thing right away, first of all. Second of all... I must make it stop. For just a flicker of a second I thought "fine then, nobody edits but me"... but then I noticed in the change long that someone else actually fixed some spam for me :)

The thing is, I'm not entirely sure how much of the junk is added by humans and how much is added by robots... hrm. Actually I just noticed that some of my referrers are obvious web-searches for the oddmuse footer text. Now I've repeated the search and found other peoples' pages which got attacked and fixed them. I'll figure something out to deal with this soon...

Well my week was long and difficult... everything I touched at work turned to dust and that pretty much took up all my time.

----

Here is an idea for the WikiSpam issue: You must answer a simple question to save a page. This is along the idea of "what do you see in this image" trick that some sites do now, except that it would be completely text-based. This has several advantages. First off, it is not so server-intense. The image-based techniques either cache the images or generate them on the fly (usually the latter to at least some degree). They must make the image un-readable by OCR but readable by people. Secondly, and more importantly, I can ask arbitrary questions of an english-speaking (intelligent) audience.

Sample questions:
* What is the first letter of this question?
* How many letters are in the word "dog"?
* What is 2 + 2?
* Why is a raven like a writing desk?

