---
title: TLT_-_2004.09.20
createdAt: 2004-09-20T23:32-04:00
editedAt: 2004-09-20T23:32-04:00
---

So as I may have mentioned we got VOIP service instead of a landline from http://packet8.net. So far its been satisfactory, but we've had two outages. The first was because of the cable internet company -- messed up their DB of MAC addresses, but is fixed now. The second was tonight and was definately Packet8's fault.

The outage wasn't for long, and I called up the tech support using the cellphone to make sure that it wasn't our fault. As usual they answered fairly soon and told me that it was indeed a network outage on their end (even their website was down at this time). Said it would be up in about half and hour and indeed it was. But while I was thinking about it I thought I'd push on with my research into the details of their system. Once their webpage came back I noticed that they had a firmware upgrade available, so I went for it.

They produce their own phone --> ethernet gateway, the DTA-310, which comes as part of the service. I never noticed before (which is strange), but it has a simple little web interface. The firmware can be upgraded either through a windows executable (ick) or through a lovely http upload. I did the latter and in no time had new firmware with a couple new features, including some more statistics measurements for call quality. Well while I was in there poking around I noticed an Advanced Configuration section, which is blocked off by a password unbeknownst to me. Search on the net so far says that nobody knows it, or at least nobody is talking.

BUT Wait! I have a lovely .bin for the firmware! So I open that up in a hex editor, as someone else mentioned doing, and see lots of lovely gibberish and strings from their webpages and settings. No plaintext password unfortunately, but I wasn't expecting one. Other research has led me to believe that they are programming everything in C... which should be perfectly de-compileable. Now I just have to find out what chip I'm decompiling for. Next step... pop the top.

Stay tuned.

