---
title: TLT_-_2005.08.05
createdAt: 2005-08-05T17:17-04:00
editedAt: 2005-08-05T17:17-04:00
---

Two things happened at work today. First off, and most importantly, I was productive. I have been in a rut lately, you see, running myself in circles but not getting any significant amount of progress out of it. Today I pushed through and am meeting milestones again. I think that I was kinda stressed about getting the new apartment (which we are in now) and such, so that was surely a factor. Soon Beth and I will have the office set up, and I can then tinker from home.

Second thing, perhaps disturbing -- I've decided not to sweat the javascript requirement in my SWCA applications. Generally I avoid js whenever I can, and can get away with it pretty much everywhere. Unfortunately some of these "getting away with it" techniques increasingly fall within the range of "hacks". One abuse, for example, is in links.

See -- you have this complex form with lots of inputs which is the user frequents. The site navigation bar, however, is always visible and at any point they can click to go to another section. Unfortunately with a plain link any input they _just_did_ is lost. Easy enough... I just replace all the plain links with buttons! Throw a little CSS on there and they won't even know the difference. Unless, that is, they use safari. Safari's (and Konqueror's) Human Interface Guidelines dictate that buttons should look like buttons, not links. So I can't kill their borders or shape. So sad.

Point being that I gave up and added some lovely onClick js to some normal links to make them submit() the form. Now they look and act like the links they are.

I'll have to get some photos up of our new place, its pretty nice. Liz and Jason are visiting this weekend, and my youngest brothers Levi and Garrett will be visiting sometime soon as well. So we moved in just in time :)

