---
title: TLT_-_2005.03.18
createdAt: 2005-03-19T05:08-05:00
editedAt: 2005-03-19T05:08-05:00
---

I used to get [http://www.ddj.com/ Dr. Dobb's Journal], and the first thing I'd flip to was Swaine's Flames. They were simple, one-page articles, centering on some random thought from Michael Swaine. Like many of the stylistic articles I enjoy, he'd start on a topic, wander off for a while, and then bring it all back around to his point (if he had one).

Enthralled with this, and wanting to spread my own memes throughout the world, I set out to emulate this style. In my head, anyway. So far it hasn't actually happened, even though I've tried a bit. Now and then I write something down, but it doesn't really come out the way I'd like. Primarily I try to use the [[TLT]], but there are some issues. Biggest issue -- I don't spend enough time on any one entry. There is no editing or revision, no thought or consideration. Instead I write whatever comes into my mind at the moment and then hit the 'post' button and thats that.

Thus here I am, unsatisfied, forced into a meta-discussion. Not that I don't enjoy meta-discussions. In fact, if you stick the meta- prefix onto just about anything there is a very good chance that I will be interested in it. Lets try... meta-programming. Meta-mathematics. Meta-cooking. Meta-taxes. All things I love! But I digress.

So time and revisioning are definately things which are slowing my progress. Of course, Swaine has the advantage of being <i>paid</i> to write his rants. Oh, and he actually has things to rant about. What do I have? Strange stories about how I think the neo-nazi party should have an image makeover centering around using 'Z' (with a little sideways z overlayed) as their new logo and name ("We're the Z's!"). Perhaps. Until you realize that Z's point the wrong direction to simulate an official swastika. Though it could still be their "unofficial" logo. Not that I want to encourage nazi-ism, mind you. Its just marketing.

Point being that he gets to go on strange tangents whereas I do not. Thus I have in mind a solution which will be pleasing for everyone, especially me. All it takes is you... your donation could mean one more hour of thought will go into my next entry! Just imagine all of the high-quality articles which I might produce once your check arrives in my mailbox. Wouldn't it be wonderful?!

I could even use the money to re-subscribe to [http://www.ddj.com/ Dr. Dobb's Journal] so that I can read Swaine's Flames.

