---
title: TLT_-_2004.03.11
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-03-11T14:55-05:00
updatedAt: 2004-03-11T14:55-05:00
---

I just noticed cpan:SuperPython and am greatly entertained. To really get it you need to look at both the source and the examples!

So yesterday I was reading [http://thelackthereof.org/docs/library/cs/gp/Yu,%20Tina%20and%20Miller,%20Julian:%20Finding%20Needles%20in%20Haystacks%20is%20Not%20Hard%20with%20Neutrality.pdf this] paper from Tina Yu and noticed a section on Cartesian Genetic Programming. This is an interesting genotype/phenotype representation using a fixed length integer list as a genotype and a tree as phenotypes. When translating from genotype to phenotype some of the numbers in the integer string don't get used (this is a slight simplification) which makes these points invisible to the fitness test and thus ripe for [[Neutral Evolution]].

The main reason this caught my eye is that I thought of something very like this not long ago which has a similar affect. Instead of using an integer string for the genotype I use another tree/graph representation with redundant nodes. I almost had myself convinced for a while there that what I had was no better than several genotypes put on top of each other (and that they may as well have been separate). Fortunately I've unconvinced myself and am now thinking of reproducing Tina's (et al) experiment using my own representation.

----

After thinking about it a bit I've realized that my representation (as I remember it anyway) isn't much better than CGP. The biggest difference is that mine leads to a dynamic lenth of a program whereas CGP has a maximum upper limit. I don't particularly like upper-limits and would much rather put a fitness weight in favor of smaller programs than actually limit length.

I'm going to email Tina and ask for clarification regarding the "type safety" of the CGP phenotype/genotypes esp whether there can be loops of any kind. The one additional advantage of my network-based genotype is overlapping subtrees (which would then get unrolled in the genotype)... though they are probably not so useful in the simple tests she did in her paper.

