---
title: TLT_-_2005.02.13
createdAt: 2005-02-13T12:16-05:00
editedAt: 2005-02-13T12:16-05:00
---

[http://codecon.org CodeCon] is fun, though different than other conferences I've attended. Its all nerds, but I've seen that at math conferences. Its hosted at a nightclub, and the lighting is set up about how you'd expect a night club to be done, which is to say that it is quite dark. This certainly makes it easy to see the ongoing presentation, and definately adds a very hackeresq feel to the whole thing.

Pretty good variety in the people, in both interests and talent.

On Friday evening we went and hung out with Tim and his kids. His kids are great, they even did a skit for us right out of The Holy Grail. Tim and I got to talk about some of our pet projects, stuff that relates to [[Continuity]] mostly.

His idea is that (basically) in an MVC system the entire View component should live on the person's desktop. Now, while I agree that this is how things '''should''' be, it is hard for me to believe that we have reached the point where it can actually be done. But he points to javascript in the browser allowing for rich client interaction... but my heart is still holding back. Neither of us are actually doing it that way yet at this point, but others are beginning.

Today the presentation which I'm most looking forward to is [http://wheatfarm.org/ WheatFarm]. Its an intersting idea (though possibly [http://seaside.st/ already-been-done] in a lot of ways). I'd like to know if they have any ideas for non-coolness uses for the thing.

