---
title: TLT_-_2004.08.14
tags: ["blog"]
createdAt: 2004-08-15T04:53-04:00
updatedAt: 2004-08-15T04:53-04:00
---

I'm still alive. Doing some contract work for http://www.norchemlab.com/ in Perl which is fun. More details on my life to come soon as I get back into the habit of posting here.

----

OK, lets consider the web framework that I've put together for the panel. First of all it is Model-View-Controller. The Model is based on Class::DBI, which I hope to someday have some lovely [[SetDB]] wrapper. The View is a thin wrapper around cpan:Embperl. And finally, the Controller is straight perl programming with the aid of Contize.

Right now all three are separate, and I like it that way, but I am starting to think of ways to blend them together more efficiently. So, for example, I wrote a lovely method called dispTemplate which is used like this:

<code>
sub personDetails {
  my ($self, $person) = @_;
  my $f = $self->dispTemplate('personDetails.tpl',
    person => $person
  );
  my $action = $f->{action} || 'Save'; # Save by default
  if ($action eq 'Save') { $self->saveRecord($person, $f) }
}
</code>

Actually I am using two helper methods here -- dispTemplate displays a template and returns the query string, and saveRecord extracts the appropriate variables from $f to put into $person. There are a lot of advantages to this style, from readability in code to editability for the template.

Another thought I have is using OCaml instead of Perl as the language. OCaml has continuations, and we can certainly implement high-level DB and templating techniques there too. Perhaps all the pieces aren't in place yet... but lets imagine what it will look like once they are all in place.

<code>
let personDetails person =
  let f = dispTemplate "personDetails.tpl"
    ("person", person)
  in
  match (Hashtbl.find f "action") with
  | "save" | _ -> saveRecord person f
</code>

This code would be even prettier if OCaml had a better hash syntax, like f{"action"} instead of Hashtbl.find f "action". But whatever. Here you can see that the actual code which makes up the controller aren't all that different between the two languages. I'd also make a template language which is identical to my current Embperl solution. It would be HTML (or whatever plaintext-based stuff you want) with two types of markup. [* ... ocaml code ... *] for raw code, and [+ expression +] for inserting the result of an expression. Though I suppose I'd have to take typing into account. grr.

Which is why I'm doing it in Perl, not OCaml.

Well. Though I am on some sort of a roll, typing-wise, I think it is best if I go to bed now. Besides, I might get carried away here and stay up all night... which would be fine if we weren't going to breakfast with the Kleizers and also visiting Beth's Grandma tomorrow. Doot do doo.

