---
title: TLT_-_2004.03.19
createdAt: 2004-03-20T02:19-05:00
editedAt: 2004-03-20T02:19-05:00
---

Today was the 1-year anniversary of the Iraq Invasion.

Lets do a compare and contrast excercise. See the following two articles:
* http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2004/03/print/20040319-3.html
* http://www.johnkerry.com/pressroom/releases/pr_2004_0319.html

The most interesting thing is that Bush focuses on all of the terrorism that we've stopped by invading Iraq. He has also taken to using the word "Killers" instead of terrorists, especially when speaking about the recent bombing in Spain. They way he words it one might conclude that the world's center of terrorism was Iraq (which is false).

Kerry, on the other hand, is backpeddeling. He voted for the war and now he is trying to get out of it...

<blockquote>“He misled the American people in his own State of the Union Address about Saddam’s nuclear program and WMD’s, and refused – and continues to refuse – to level with the American people about the cost of the war. Simply put, this President didn't tell the truth about the war for the beginning. And our country is paying the price."</blockquote>

This does not redeem his vote in my mind, however. It seems like it was a bad idea even when we were being misinformed.

----

00:12

Well spring break is almost over. Very sad... I've been enjoying my freedom. The senioritus bug is niblling at my toes (though i'm trying very hard to beat it back) and I am looking forward to taking a break from school. After 18 years (if you include kindergarten) I think I deserve a bit of a break.

But school is not over yet. So tomorrow my plan is to go over all my books and study a bit. Make sure I don't have any homework due and such. Productive like. We're also going to go see a movie I think... probably just Beth and I which will be nice.

I added a pingback module for oddmuse (see [[OddMuse Pingback]]) which is fun and all but now I realize that nobody uses pingback. They hardly use trakback. How sad... they are such good technologies. *sigh*

Time for bed!

